well i'm tim cook and i want to show you
our cat cloth setter it's what we call
the dial tooth setter made by cooks aw
we saw this setter for many years and
it's just a good setter it works really
good it's one of the most accurate
setters that you can use it bends the
tooth very accurately you can see
exactly what you do I'm going to
demonstrate that I'm first going to show
you the moving parts on the setter and
so that you can recognize those for
those of you who purchase it and want to
have a better understanding of how to
use it I'll start with the dial
indicator and you can see the needle as
it moves over to to check a tooth and
will turn you can turn this dial and set
it to zero wherever you'd like to set
that in the back and below the the dial
indicator there is every adjustment that
you need you can raise it up you can
tilt it to the side you can tilt it down
every adjustment you can slide it in and
out that you need and then I'll move
forward you'll notice that we have a
sliding block if you can see this moving
back and forth as I move this handle
then I have the bending screw or the
bending boat we call that there and I
also call this the back block the back
block is welded firm and that is what
the tooth gets bent over we're measuring
anything that protrudes beyond the flat
surface of the back block the front
block moves inside of the front block I
doubt that you can see this but there's
a spring-loaded bar the spring-loaded
bar catches the blade about a quarter of
an inch below the gullet and so it
measures the upper portion of the blade
sometimes blades have a curvature you
all have heard me talk about that in
other videos and other writings and so I
take the the factor of the curvature out
of the blade when I press that
spring-loaded bar beneath the gullet and
then the upper quarter of the blade
you'll also notice this handle that
clamps this this clamp puts 850-pound
pressure against the blade it has a
threaded bar that goes up into the front
side here that is adjustable as the
clamp handle
errors and parts in it where's you can
extend this so that it clamps it
continues to clamp the blade firm when I
come forward with the handle I want it
to just snow then you notice it kind of
lot there's a locking mechanism just
barely locks and then I can ease it out
but I don't want that hard to push I
don't want to fight this thing I just
want it to go easy and just snug and if
it's not snug and I'll make an
adjustment there to make that snug and
of course these are sliding parts put a
little oil on them and that will make
them work good these I call them
clickers you can call them whatever
indexers you can you can move the blade
and index it you can count the clicks
pull the blade back click click click
pull it back and that's the way you can
keep your index in the exact same place
every time one thing I want to advise
you of you'll hear people say that they
want to set the very tip of the blade
that's impossible on hardened tooth
blades that tip is set and then hardened
down 1/8 of an inch from the factory and
if you try to bend it up there on the
tip you'll snap it off every single time
we're going to be trying to bend this
blade down near the gullet line near the
body of the blade that's the only place
you can bend it what other factors that
people think sometimes the set is
bending back out of the blade if you'll
notice we have to bend the tooth way
over 20,000 beyond approximately to
spring back to see what kind of what
kind of set we are of obtaining so you
have to bend it way over there's nothing
in the log that reverses that action
although set does wear off when you wear
the set off then you're going to measure
less set now I will say that when you
bend the spring steel over and it comes
back it might relax back a thousand or
two maybe three according to what kind
of steel it is I do realize that can
happen but I just want you to know you
can't bend the tip and if you do it will
snap that tip off with these hardened
blades one of the first things I do if I
sharpen the blade first is I Deibert and
I will recommend to you if you're
sharpening your own blades set it first
sharpen second that is my recommendation
it will cut better if your sharpening
for other
people we said we sharpened first and
then set because people are so finicky
about the set I'm not as finicky about
said as most people I believe that the
set must be wide enough to clear the
body and without friction and that's its
job I've actually tested blades where
you could put five thousands more on one
side than the other didn't matter the
blades solid then the key factor was was
the blade sharp was it set enough to
clear it and was it flat if the blades
not flat I don't care what you set the
set at it's not going to saw straight
but many people blame set problems two
blades that are not flat but anyway I
won't discuss the flatness that's
another portion of what we'll do but a
lot of times set is blamed for things
that it's not doing anyway I'm going to
show you we've got a tool that was
sinned with it's just a lathe tool it's
high speed steel and I'm going to scrape
the the burr off of the blade I'm just
going to go around it real quick and
show you how I would do that